---
title: "Google Summer of Code 2022 - Stellar Group"
date: 2022-08-10
categories:
  - blog
tags:
  - Projects
  - HPX
toc: true
toc_label: "Table of Contents"  
toc_sticky: true
---
This post is about my contribution to the HPX Concurrency and Parallelism library, for GSoC 2022. 

## Overview

This summer, I joined Ste\|\|ar group as a contributor through [Google Summer of Code (GSoC)][GSOC]. I contributed to the [HPX project][HPX], which is a C++ Standard Library for Concurrency and Parallelism.  
My project? ***HPX Algorithm Performance Analysis & Optimization***


>To explain further:  
>The C++ standard library defines functions for commonly used algorithms (eg. sorting, searching).
>HPX provides sequential and parallel implementations for all these algorithms.  
>My GSoC project involved performance analysis and optimization for these implementations.



## Completed Work

### Performance analysis with custom benchmarks
+ Writing small C++ benchmark programs for different algorithms / implementations.
+ Building & running them while changing various different parameters (workload, CPU cores, grain size).
+ Performing runs on different machines & configurations
+ Collecting timing data and creating useful visulizations using various metrics (i.e. strong/weak scaling, thread utilization charts)
+ Automating all above proccess for quick turnaround time

### Use of profiling tools
+ Instrumenting existing code for profiling with Intel VTune
+ Using existing HPX utilities or adding new as needed 

### Observation & new implementations
+ Using collected data to find bottlenecks and modify existing implementations.
+ No PRs yet, but made many interesting (expected and unexpected) observations. Laid the foundation for work to follow.


## Result Showcase

## Links

## Future Work

## NOT COMPLETED
To be completed

[GSOC]: https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/
[Stellar]: https://stellar-group.org/
[HPX]: https://github.com/STEllAR-GROUP/hpx